README.md, before:

NoteBLOX is open to community contributions. There is no need for a contributor
to have committer rights to the repo, or to even be a team member. All contributors are welcome
to submit their pull requests.

> New contributors or team members must [sign the Contributor Agreement](#sign-the-contributor-license-agreement-cla)
> before adding a contribution or receiving a member invitation respectively.

Please read this document carefully to understand how to best to submit your pull request,
what kind of changes are likely to be accepted, and what to expect from the NoteBLOX team
when evaluating your submission. Remember to use this document as a checklist before issuing any pull
request; this will save time and make it easier for your contribution to be accepted.

<!-- TOC depthFrom:1 depthTo:6 withLinks:1 updateOnSave:1 orderedList:0 -->

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [First Steps](#first-steps)
	- [Understand the basics](#understand-the-basics)
	- [Search Stack Overflow first; discuss if necessary](#search-stack-overflow-first-discuss-if-necessary)
	- [Search the issues; create a new one if necessary](#search-the-issues-create-a-new-one-if-necessary)
	- [Sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](#sign-the-contributor-license-agreement-cla)
- [Create a Branch](#create-a-branch)
	- [Branch from `master`](#branch-from-master)
	- [Use short branch names](#use-short-branch-names)
- [Use Spring Framework's Code Style](#use-spring-frameworks-code-style)
	- [Mind the whitespace](#mind-the-whitespace)
	- [Add appropriate license header to all source files](#add-appropriate-license-header-to-all-source-files)
	- [Use @since tags for newly-added public API types and methods](#use-since-tags-for-newly-added-public-api-types-and-methods)
- [Prepare Your Commit](#prepare-your-commit)
	- [Submit JUnit or Integration Tests for all behavior changes](#submit-junit-or-integration-tests-for-all-behavior-changes)
	- [Squash commits](#squash-commits)
	- [Use real name in git commits](#use-real-name-in-git-commits)
	- [Format commit messages](#format-commit-messages)
- [Run the Final Checklist](#run-the-final-checklist)
	- [Run all tests prior to submission](#run-all-tests-prior-to-submission)
	- [Submit your pull request](#submit-your-pull-request)
	- [Mention your pull request on the associated Github issue](#mention-your-pull-request-on-the-associated-github-issue)
	- [Expect discussion and rework](#expect-discussion-and-rework)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you  are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
to project maintainers or support@noteblox.com

## First Steps

### Understand the basics

Not sure what a pull request is, or how to submit one? Take a look at GitHub's
excellent [help documentation][] first.

### Search Stack Overflow first; discuss if necessary

If you're unsure why something isn't working or wondering if there is a better
way of doing it please create an issue to start discussion.

### Search the issues; create a new one if necessary

Is there already an issue that addresses your concern? Do a bit of searching
in our Github issues for the project to see if you can find something similar. If you
do not find something similar, please create a new Github issue before submitting
a pull request unless the change is truly trivial -- for example: typo fixes,
removing compiler warnings, etc.

### Sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)

If you have not previously done so, please sign the [Contributor License Agreement][].
If you forget to do so, you'll be reminded when you submit a pull request. To quickly sign the agreement:

1. Fork this repository and navigate to your fork's root folder
2. Add a copy of the agreement in the signed folder, naming it after yourself: `cp ContributorLicenseAgreement.md signed/FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME.md`
3. Update the *new* file using your information
4. Commit/push to your fork
5. Create a pull request from your fork to this repository

## Create a Branch

### Branch from `master`

Please submit all pull requests to the master branch of the appropriate project.
Even bug fixes and minor improvements. Backports will be considered on a case-by-case basis by
NoteBLOX developers.


### Use short branch names

Branches used when submitting pull requests should preferably be named
according to corresponding Github issues, e.g. 'PR-1234'. Otherwise, use succinct, lower-case,
dash (-) delimited names, such as 'fix-warnings', 'fix-typo', etc. In
[fork-and-edit][] cases, the GitHub default 'patch-1' is fine as well. This is
important, because branch names show up in the merge commits that result from
accepting pull requests and should be as expressive and concise as possible.

## Use Spring Framework's Code Style

The complete [Spring Framework Code Style][] reference is available on the Spring wiki, but
here's a quick summary:

### Mind the whitespace

Please carefully follow the whitespace and formatting conventions already
present in the framework.

1. Tabs, not spaces
1. Unix (LF), not DOS (CRLF) line endings
1. Eliminate all trailing whitespace
1. Wrap Javadoc at 90 characters
1. Aim to wrap code at 90 characters, but favor readability over wrapping
1. Preserve existing formatting; i.e. do not reformat code for its own sake
1. Search the codebase using `git grep` and other tools to discover common
    naming conventions, etc.
1. UTF-8 encoding for Java and text sources


### Add appropriate license header to all source files

Use the headers found in existing files of the project you are creating
the pull request for.


### Use @since tags for newly-added public API types and methods

For example:

```java
/**
 * ...
 *
 * @author First Last
 * @since 2.1.1
 * @see ...
 */
```

## Prepare Your Commit

### Submit JUnit or Integration Tests for all behavior changes

Search the codebase to find related tests and add additional `@Test` methods
as appropriate. It is also acceptable to submit test cases on a per Github issue
basis, for example:

```java
package org.springframework.beans.factory.support;

/**
 * Unit tests for PR-1234, in which a custom {@link InstantiationAwareBeanPostProcessor}
 * forces the predicted type of a FactoryBean, effectively preventing retrieval of the
 * bean from calls to #getBeansOfType(FactoryBean.class). The implementation of
 * {@link AbstractBeanFactory#isFactoryBean(String, RootBeanDefinition)} now ensures
 * that not only the predicted bean type is considered, but also the original bean
 * definition's beanClass.
 *
 * @author YOUR NAME
 */
public class Pr1234Tests {

    @Test
    public void cpr1234() {
        // ...
    }
}
```


### Squash commits

Use `git rebase --interactive --autosquash`, `git add --patch`, and other tools
to "squash" multiple commits into a single atomic commit. In addition to the man
pages for git, there are many resources online to help you understand how these
tools work. The [Rewriting History section of Pro Git][] provides a good overview.


### Use real name in git commits

Please configure git to use your real first and last name for any commits you
intend to submit as pull requests. For example, this is not acceptable:

    Author: Nickname <user@mail.com>

Rather, please include your first and last name, properly capitalized, as
submitted against the NoteBLOX Individual Contributor License Agreement (ICLA):

    Author: First Last <user@mail.com>

This helps ensure traceability against the ICLA and also goes a long way to
ensuring useful output from tools like `git shortlog` and others.

You can configure this via the account admin area in GitHub (useful for
fork-and-edit cases); _globally_ on your machine with

    git config --global user.name "First Last"
    git config --global user.email user@mail.com

or _locally_ for the `example` repository only by omitting the
'--global' flag:

    cd example
    git config user.name "First Last"
    git config user.email user@mail.com


### Format commit messages

Please read and follow the [Commit Guidelines section of Pro Git][].

Most importantly, please format your commit messages in the following way
(adapted from the commit template in the link above):

    Short (50 chars or less) summary of changes

    More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72
    characters or so. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
    subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body. The blank
    line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
    the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
    two together.

    Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

     - Bullet points are okay, too

     - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
       single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here

    Issue: PR-1234, PR-1235


1. Use imperative statements in the subject line, e.g. "Fix broken Javadoc link".
1. Begin the subject line with a capitalized verb, e.g. "Add, Prune, Fix,
    Introduce, Avoid, etc."
1. Do not end the subject line with a period.
1. Restrict the subject line to 50 characters or less if possible.
1. Wrap lines in the body at 72 characters or less.
1. Mention associated issue(s) at the end of the commit comment, prefixed
    with "Issue: " as above.
1. In the body of the commit message, explain how things worked before this
    commit, what has changed, and how things work now.

For examples of this style, issue a `git log --author=cbeams` in the
`spring-framework` git repository. For convenience, here are several such commits:

- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/08e2669b84ec0faa2f7904441fe39ac70b65b078
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/1d9d3e6ff79ce9f0eca03b02cd1df705925575da
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/8e0b1c3a5f957af3049cfa0438317177e16d6de6
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/b787a68f2050df179f7036b209aa741230a02477

## Run the Final Checklist

### Run all tests prior to submission

Build your target project and make sure that all tests pass prior to submitting your pull request.


### Submit your pull request

Subject line:

Follow the same conventions for pull request subject lines as mentioned above
for commit message subject lines.

In the body:

1. Explain your use case. What led you to submit this change? Why were existing
    mechanisms in the framework insufficient? Make a case that this is a
    general-purpose problem and that yours is a general-purpose solution, etc.
1. Add any additional information and ask questions; start a conversation or
    continue one from our Github issues.
1. Mention the Github issue ID.
1. Also mention that you have submitted the ICLA as described above.

Note that for pull requests containing a single commit, GitHub will default the
subject line and body of the pull request to match the subject line and body of
the commit message. This is fine, but please also include the items above in the
body of the request.


### Mention your pull request on the associated Github issue

Add a comment to the associated Github issue(s) linking to your new pull request.


### Expect discussion and rework

NoteBLOX developers may take a conservative approach to accepting contributions.
Development resources are not unlimited, so this is to keep code quality and stability
as high as possible, and to keep complexity at a minimum for helping maintenance.
Your changes, if accepted, may be heavily modified prior to merging.
You will retain "Author:" attribution for your Git
commits granted that the bulk of your changes remain intact. You may be asked to
rework the submission for style (as explained above) and/or substance. Again, we
strongly recommend discussing any serious submissions with the  
team _prior_ to engaging in serious development work.

Note that you can always force push (`git push -f`) reworked / rebased commits
against the branch used to submit your pull request. In other words, you do not
need to issue a new pull request when asked to make changes.

[help documentation]: https://help.github.com/categories/collaborating-on-projects-using-issues-and-pull-requests/
[Contributor License Agreement]: ContributorLicenseAgreement.md
[fork-and-edit]: https://github.com/blog/844-forking-with-the-edit-button
[Spring Framework Code Style]: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/wiki/Spring-Framework-Code-Style
[Rewriting History section of Pro Git]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History
[Commit Guidelines section of Pro Git]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#Commit-Guidelines

Commit message:

added links to github's help articles on howto fork/PR

README.md, after:

NoteBLOX is open to community contributions. There is no need for a contributor
to have committer rights to the repo, or to even be a team member. All contributors are welcome
to submit their pull requests.

> New contributors or team members must [sign the Contributor Agreement](#sign-the-contributor-license-agreement-cla)
> before adding a contribution or receiving a member invitation respectively.

Please read this document carefully to understand how to best to submit your pull request,
what kind of changes are likely to be accepted, and what to expect from the NoteBLOX team
when evaluating your submission. Remember to use this document as a checklist before issuing any pull
request; this will save time and make it easier for your contribution to be accepted.

<!-- TOC depthFrom:1 depthTo:6 withLinks:1 updateOnSave:1 orderedList:0 -->

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [First Steps](#first-steps)
	- [Understand the basics](#understand-the-basics)
	- [Search Stack Overflow first; discuss if necessary](#search-stack-overflow-first-discuss-if-necessary)
	- [Search the issues; create a new one if necessary](#search-the-issues-create-a-new-one-if-necessary)
	- [Sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](#sign-the-contributor-license-agreement-cla)
- [Create a Branch](#create-a-branch)
	- [Branch from `master`](#branch-from-master)
	- [Use short branch names](#use-short-branch-names)
- [Use Spring Framework's Code Style](#use-spring-frameworks-code-style)
	- [Mind the whitespace](#mind-the-whitespace)
	- [Add appropriate license header to all source files](#add-appropriate-license-header-to-all-source-files)
	- [Use @since tags for newly-added public API types and methods](#use-since-tags-for-newly-added-public-api-types-and-methods)
- [Prepare Your Commit](#prepare-your-commit)
	- [Submit JUnit or Integration Tests for all behavior changes](#submit-junit-or-integration-tests-for-all-behavior-changes)
	- [Squash commits](#squash-commits)
	- [Use real name in git commits](#use-real-name-in-git-commits)
	- [Format commit messages](#format-commit-messages)
- [Run the Final Checklist](#run-the-final-checklist)
	- [Run all tests prior to submission](#run-all-tests-prior-to-submission)
	- [Submit your pull request](#submit-your-pull-request)
	- [Mention your pull request on the associated Github issue](#mention-your-pull-request-on-the-associated-github-issue)
	- [Expect discussion and rework](#expect-discussion-and-rework)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you  are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
to project maintainers or support@noteblox.com

## First Steps

### Understand the basics

Not sure what a pull request is, or how to submit one? Take a look at GitHub's
excellent [help documentation][] first.

### Search Stack Overflow first; discuss if necessary

If you're unsure why something isn't working or wondering if there is a better
way of doing it please create an issue to start discussion.

### Search the issues; create a new one if necessary

Is there already an issue that addresses your concern? Do a bit of searching
in our Github issues for the project to see if you can find something similar. If you
do not find something similar, please create a new Github issue before submitting
a pull request unless the change is truly trivial -- for example: typo fixes,
removing compiler warnings, etc.

### Sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)

If you have not previously done so, please sign the [Contributor License Agreement][].
If you forget to do so, you'll be reminded when you submit a pull request. To quickly sign the agreement:

1. Fork this repository and navigate to your fork's root folder. To learn about forking projects see Github's ["Fork a Repo"](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/)  article.
2. Add a copy of the agreement in the signed folder, naming it after yourself: `cp ContributorLicenseAgreement.md signed/FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME.md`
3. Update the *new* file using your information
4. Commit/push to your fork
5. Create a pull request from your fork to this repository. If this is your first time see Github's ["Creating a pull request from a fork"](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/)  article.

## Create a Branch

### Branch from `master`

Please submit all pull requests to the master branch of the appropriate project.
Even bug fixes and minor improvements. Backports will be considered on a case-by-case basis by
NoteBLOX developers.


### Use short branch names

Branches used when submitting pull requests should preferably be named
according to corresponding Github issues, e.g. 'PR-1234'. Otherwise, use succinct, lower-case,
dash (-) delimited names, such as 'fix-warnings', 'fix-typo', etc. In
[fork-and-edit][] cases, the GitHub default 'patch-1' is fine as well. This is
important, because branch names show up in the merge commits that result from
accepting pull requests and should be as expressive and concise as possible.

## Use Spring Framework's Code Style

The complete [Spring Framework Code Style][] reference is available on the Spring wiki, but
here's a quick summary:

### Mind the whitespace

Please carefully follow the whitespace and formatting conventions already
present in the framework.

1. Tabs, not spaces
1. Unix (LF), not DOS (CRLF) line endings
1. Eliminate all trailing whitespace
1. Wrap Javadoc at 90 characters
1. Aim to wrap code at 90 characters, but favor readability over wrapping
1. Preserve existing formatting; i.e. do not reformat code for its own sake
1. Search the codebase using `git grep` and other tools to discover common
    naming conventions, etc.
1. UTF-8 encoding for Java and text sources


### Add appropriate license header to all source files

Use the headers found in existing files of the project you are creating
the pull request for.


### Use @since tags for newly-added public API types and methods

For example:

```java
/**
 * ...
 *
 * @author First Last
 * @since 2.1.1
 * @see ...
 */
```

## Prepare Your Commit

### Submit JUnit or Integration Tests for all behavior changes

Search the codebase to find related tests and add additional `@Test` methods
as appropriate. It is also acceptable to submit test cases on a per Github issue
basis, for example:

```java
package org.springframework.beans.factory.support;

/**
 * Unit tests for PR-1234, in which a custom {@link InstantiationAwareBeanPostProcessor}
 * forces the predicted type of a FactoryBean, effectively preventing retrieval of the
 * bean from calls to #getBeansOfType(FactoryBean.class). The implementation of
 * {@link AbstractBeanFactory#isFactoryBean(String, RootBeanDefinition)} now ensures
 * that not only the predicted bean type is considered, but also the original bean
 * definition's beanClass.
 *
 * @author YOUR NAME
 */
public class Pr1234Tests {

    @Test
    public void cpr1234() {
        // ...
    }
}
```


### Squash commits

Use `git rebase --interactive --autosquash`, `git add --patch`, and other tools
to "squash" multiple commits into a single atomic commit. In addition to the man
pages for git, there are many resources online to help you understand how these
tools work. The [Rewriting History section of Pro Git][] provides a good overview.


### Use real name in git commits

Please configure git to use your real first and last name for any commits you
intend to submit as pull requests. For example, this is not acceptable:

    Author: Nickname <user@mail.com>

Rather, please include your first and last name, properly capitalized, as
submitted against the NoteBLOX Individual Contributor License Agreement (ICLA):

    Author: First Last <user@mail.com>

This helps ensure traceability against the ICLA and also goes a long way to
ensuring useful output from tools like `git shortlog` and others.

You can configure this via the account admin area in GitHub (useful for
fork-and-edit cases); _globally_ on your machine with

    git config --global user.name "First Last"
    git config --global user.email user@mail.com

or _locally_ for the `example` repository only by omitting the
'--global' flag:

    cd example
    git config user.name "First Last"
    git config user.email user@mail.com


### Format commit messages

Please read and follow the [Commit Guidelines section of Pro Git][].

Most importantly, please format your commit messages in the following way
(adapted from the commit template in the link above):

    Short (50 chars or less) summary of changes

    More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72
    characters or so. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
    subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body. The blank
    line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
    the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
    two together.

    Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

     - Bullet points are okay, too

     - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
       single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here

    Issue: PR-1234, PR-1235


1. Use imperative statements in the subject line, e.g. "Fix broken Javadoc link".
1. Begin the subject line with a capitalized verb, e.g. "Add, Prune, Fix,
    Introduce, Avoid, etc."
1. Do not end the subject line with a period.
1. Restrict the subject line to 50 characters or less if possible.
1. Wrap lines in the body at 72 characters or less.
1. Mention associated issue(s) at the end of the commit comment, prefixed
    with "Issue: " as above.
1. In the body of the commit message, explain how things worked before this
    commit, what has changed, and how things work now.

For examples of this style, issue a `git log --author=cbeams` in the
`spring-framework` git repository. For convenience, here are several such commits:

- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/08e2669b84ec0faa2f7904441fe39ac70b65b078
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/1d9d3e6ff79ce9f0eca03b02cd1df705925575da
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/8e0b1c3a5f957af3049cfa0438317177e16d6de6
- https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/b787a68f2050df179f7036b209aa741230a02477

## Run the Final Checklist

### Run all tests prior to submission

Build your target project and make sure that all tests pass prior to submitting your pull request.


### Submit your pull request

Subject line:

Follow the same conventions for pull request subject lines as mentioned above
for commit message subject lines.

In the body:

1. Explain your use case. What led you to submit this change? Why were existing
    mechanisms in the framework insufficient? Make a case that this is a
    general-purpose problem and that yours is a general-purpose solution, etc.
1. Add any additional information and ask questions; start a conversation or
    continue one from our Github issues.
1. Mention the Github issue ID.
1. Also mention that you have submitted the ICLA as described above.

Note that for pull requests containing a single commit, GitHub will default the
subject line and body of the pull request to match the subject line and body of
the commit message. This is fine, but please also include the items above in the
body of the request.


### Mention your pull request on the associated Github issue

Add a comment to the associated Github issue(s) linking to your new pull request.


### Expect discussion and rework

NoteBLOX developers may take a conservative approach to accepting contributions.
Development resources are not unlimited, so this is to keep code quality and stability
as high as possible, and to keep complexity at a minimum for helping maintenance.
Your changes, if accepted, may be heavily modified prior to merging.
You will retain "Author:" attribution for your Git
commits granted that the bulk of your changes remain intact. You may be asked to
rework the submission for style (as explained above) and/or substance. Again, we
strongly recommend discussing any serious submissions with the  
team _prior_ to engaging in serious development work.

Note that you can always force push (`git push -f`) reworked / rebased commits
against the branch used to submit your pull request. In other words, you do not
need to issue a new pull request when asked to make changes.

[help documentation]: https://help.github.com/categories/collaborating-on-projects-using-issues-and-pull-requests/
[Contributor License Agreement]: ContributorLicenseAgreement.md
[fork-and-edit]: https://github.com/blog/844-forking-with-the-edit-button
[Spring Framework Code Style]: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/wiki/Spring-Framework-Code-Style
[Rewriting History section of Pro Git]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History
[Commit Guidelines section of Pro Git]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#Commit-Guidelines
